# Simulated Transactions Analysis Workbook
## Evaluating Customer Value on Simulated Data Using Excel 
***

## What is This Excel Workbook?

<p> This excel workbook can be used to evaluate customer value using a variant of RFM (Recency, Frequency, Monetary) analysis on a dynamic simulated transactions table. The user can specify parameters such as number of transactions, shape and scale of
distributions used to generate the data, and RFM weights. The workbook contains macros which are used to simulate the data according to the user specified values.
</p>

## Structure and Content of This Workbook 

<p>
This workbook contains two sheets: <i>Simulated Transaction Data</i> and <i>Customer Profiles</i>.
</p>

#### The Simulated Transaction Data sheet
<p>
This sheet consists of a table of simulated transactions data, boxes for specifying transactions amount and customer id distribution parameters, a box for specifying the number of 
transactions to be used in the simulation and histograms for the distributions
of transactions amounts and customer ids. Also included is a button for simulating data and a button for fixing the simulated data (to prevent regenerating data after each new action). The columns in the transaction table are:
</p>

<p><ul><li> <b>Transaction ID</b> Unique ID numbers from 9121300 to 9121300 +  number of transactions
</li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>Random Numbers</b> Random numbers from the range (0,1)
</li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>Old CustomerID</b> All integers from 1-600 are included at the top of the column for completeness and then the integers are generated from the gamma distribution
</li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>CustomerID</b> Random reordering of the Old CustomerID column. This is used so numbers closer together do not necessarily have similar frequency (because of how the data is generated by the gamma distribution)
</li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>Transaction Date</b> Random dates between 1/1/17 and 2/1/19
</li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>Transaction Amount</b> Random transaction amounts sampled from the gamma distribution. The lowest price transaction is assured to be no less than $3.00
</li></ul></p>

#### The Customer Profiles sheet

<p> This sheet consists of a table of customer value metrics for each customer, a box for specifying the weights assigned to each metric, a box for the average values of frequency, recency, and transaction amount, and also a box summarizing the number of customers in each value tier and the cutoff values for each tier. The customers are segmented into the groups none, valued, more valued, and most valued. The default cutoffs are as follows: Customers in the 75th-90th  percentile of customer value are deemed <i>valued customers</i> (green), those in the 90th-95th percentile are <i>more valued</i> (silver), and those above the 95th percentile are <i>most valued</i> (gold). The columns in the transaction table are: </p>

<p><ul><li> <b>CustomerID</b> The CustomerID column from the Simulated Transactions Data Sheet. </li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>Date of Last Transaction</b> The customer’s last transaction date</li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>Monetary</b> The maximum transaction amount by the customer divided by the average transaction amount </li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>Recency</b> The number of months since the customer’s last transaction</li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>Frequency</b> The number of distinct times a transaction was placed by the customer </li></ul></p>
<p><ul><li> <b>Customer Value</b> A weighted sum of the Monetary, Recency, and Frequency metrics for the customer (rounded to two decimal places) </li></ul></p>







